# smart-farming-agro-robot
The revolution of technology has upgraded our lifestyle in every sector. Now a days, most of the farmers are changing their occupation due to various reasons and thus, the agriculture sector in Bangladesh is facing problems on the way of it’s growth. The most significant reasons are:
Natural Disaster: Natural disaster like flood, drought, excessive rain and other natural disaster are barrier to meet the expected level of production. Specially the natural disasters mentioned above are mostly harm crop production. 
Soil and Environment Testing: There is no testing lab, certification, quality management and monitoring excess costs, small and medium sized enterprise (SMEs) in Bangladesh. Lack of cost-benefit analysis (market analysis/research) and product diversity are also bottlenecks in that sector.
Lack of Agricultural Labor : The number of agricultural labor has decreased in a great extend. For this reason in rural areas many rich land owners face that problem during the peak season.
Loosing Fertility & Excessive Land Use: As we have less land and more population so the land gets excessive pressure on it. More cultivation is done in a single piece of land that is a reason of loosing fertility of land. 
Improper & Excessive Use of Fertilizer & Pesticides : Farmers use more pesticide and fertilizer that harms environment and land looses its natural fertility. If the process goes in that way finally we will loose the fertility of land which is alarming. At the same time we are loosing many fishes as the pesticide mixed land water finally mixes with the water of river, canals and ponds.
Inefficient water use : The pump irrigation cost is US$ 518 per hectares and the Diesel cost is high especially during the irrigation season where 90%9 pumps are run by diesel. Water use efficiency in Bangladesh is extremely low. On the average, 25-30% of irrigation water is used by crops and the rest is lost due to faulty flood irrigation system.
Farmer’s life safety: During natural calamities, it becomes very hard for farmer to visit the field for pump operation or observation of the field. Every year many farmers are died in this case from storm or thunder strike.

Smart farmer assistant robot uses set of various sensors and processor, which combinedly take various values from the field and determines the condition of the soil, weather and gives required measures to be taken by the farmer. In automatic mode, the robot can operate the field condition by itself, like operating the water pump, spreading fertilizer or pesticide in required amount in the absence of the farmer.  This robot communicates with the farmer’s mobile phone and sends regular feedback about the field condition. 
